>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Almost
to the end,
just a few other kinds of
APIs that I wanna talk about.
So file APIs, so I mentioned streams,
I was hard on streams,
I was big on streams and I said, yes, you
need to use streams when you don't wanna
necessarily put something into memory,
but you sometimes kinda do, right?
Out of convenience you're
loading up a spreadsheet,
it's only got a few hundred
kilobytes of data, right?
You don't need to worry too much about
resources, it's not a 50 megabyte or
500 megabyte file.
So there's a file class that
you can use to read and
write files directly from disk.
Take for example, there's three main
methods that I like to use that I use
frequently, File.ReadA\\Text,
File.ReadA\\Lines, which will return
a array of strings and File.ReadA\\Bytes,
which will read that file as a byte array.
And so this is how you call them, it's
very simple, you call File.ReadA\\Text,
I can show you an example of it here.
Let's go ahead and o this new file
doesn't never works for me up here so
I better do it right here.
I'm gonna do new file file.txt and
some stuff.
Some more stuff and
very important I need to set
the properties of this thing to
make sure that it copies to,
actually, what I think we can
just copy it to the route here.
File.text, well regardless not letting
me copy paste it and that's okay.
Okay, I do wanna point out that if we
wanted to read this file as a this text
file as a text, as a string,
as just a string of the file contents,
we could do file and
you'll note that read all lines.
You'll note that it is just accessible
sometimes you have to import
system.io.file, which is fine.
So I wanna say,
read all read all text, actually,
you'll notice that there's
an async method of this.
So, again, async all the way down when you
can, so if you've got your file.text, and
you'll notice that this reads it in as a
string, and then the file read all lines.
Reads it in as a string array, and
then byte of course is a byte array.
Okay, so useful for some file
operations not strictly speaking,
something that you'll do a lot of or
every day.
Most of the times when you're talking,
especially in the context of a web app,
you're probably storing your files off on
some remote Azure storage or Amazon S3
bucket or something like that where you're
not even interacting with the file system.
But it's important to know
that these things exist.
The file API also has file.copy,
file.move,
file.delete, it also allows you
to get info about the file.
So it's sometimes important to be able to
say, hey, this file exists on disk, but
I need to know metadata about it.
I need to know its size I need to know
the permissions that exist on it,
what users can access it and in that case,
the file Info class is what
would be useful for that.
So it has a few properties
most of the time,
I'm usually just worried about the path,
sometimes the file length if I need to be.
But essentially what you do is you
create a new copy of file info,
you bring in the path of the file.
If it doesn't exist, you'll get
an exception otherwise, if it does exist,
you'll get a fully usable object that
will give you all the information that
you could ever want about that object
including the full path back to it.
You could even use file
info.delete to delete the file and
correspondingly there is a directory class
that you can use to create directories.
This is very useful when you're
doing file processing and
you need to create directories and
create files.
And maybe you're creating
these very temporarily, or
you just wanna make sure that the final
resting place with this file exists.
So directory.createdirectory is
something that I'll use frequently.
If it exists, no action is taken so
you can call this method multiple times at
the same argument,
which is important to know.
Lastly, if you're concerned
about getting paths or
need to get paths to files or
you need to construct paths to a file.
Maybe you have multiple directories you
need to chain together to get the final
resting place for
the file that you need to create.
You can use the path class to use
these APIs, such as path combine,
which will essentially create
directory\file.text, so
it automatically adds the operating
systems way of separating those files.
You can get the files extension,
or you can even get a random or
temporary file name and that could be for
something that you just store locally for
a very small amount of time.
And I do this frequently,
especially with deployed applications for
my clients, where I say,
I need to do some quick processing,
I need to download this file real quick.
I'm just gonna borrow a little disk space,
I'm not gonna borrow memory.
I'm just gonna borrow some
disk space from you, but
I'll release the file after I'm done and
after much testing and sometimes back and
forth with the code,
you'll actually get it to do that.
So file APIs, sometimes useful,
not necessarily super important but
it's there if you need it.
>> Student: Are there any techniques
to make sure you're able to unlock or
release a file even if
your program crashes?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: If
your program crashes,
it's gonna release the handle
on that file, yeah.
>> Student: And do you have any
recommendations for any LDAP or
Active Directory libraries
that are commonly used?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: I do not, that
is not something I've had to touch for
a long time.
>> Student: Thankfully.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Thankfully,
I didn't want to say, but
you said it for me.
Yeah, I haven't had to touch LDAP or
Active Directory in a long time,
I do believe, .NET Framework,
when I've had to do that back in the day,
had a pretty rich experience.
So I would assume those APIs made
their way to the core library.
>> Student: If a user does not have
elevated permissions to create
a directory to the C or C temp,
how do we get around that.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: If they don't
have permissions to do so, typically,
you have permissions to write to some
directory, some temporary director.
Not usually, not typically the root
of C unless you're elevated,
is there a way to get around that?
No, make sure that your program is
executing under the correct user context.
But typically I've not found that
creating temporary files has been
problematic for me.